PS-4688: Add section about SSL improvements (#2946)
percona/percona-server: doc/source/management/ssl-improvement.rst

.. _percona-server.management.ssl:

================================================================================
SSL Improvements
================================================================================

|Percona Server| enables transmitting data in the encrypted form by using the
TLSv1.2 protocol. By default, |Percona Server| disables TLSv1.0 and deprecates
TLSv1.1.

.. rubric:: Implemented Using |openssl|

> |Percona Server| uses the |openssl| toolkit version 1.1 to implement the suport

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Percona Server| uses the |openssl| library to implement the support
```

of TLSv1.2 protocol. As part of its implementation, |Percona Server| offers

> correct diagnostic messages.

Reviewer: Still too much tied to openssl

Author: ready for review

Reviewer: Still too much tied to openssl and/or to TLSv1.2

Author: Ready for review

Reviewer: I don't see any differences from the previous version?

Author: version numbers removed. if this is not enough you have to define what you mean by `still too much tied`

Reviewer: The fixed diagnostics are not related to 1) OpenSSL specifically 2) TLS specifically 3) YaSSL specifically. And this paragraph mixes OpenSSL, TLS, and fixed diagnostics: OpenSSL was not linked with in order to support newer TLS versions, please separate this; the fixed diagnostics are not a consequence of TLS nor OpenSSL support work, and is orthogonal to the SSL library in use

.. seealso::

>    |MySQL| Bug System (solved for |Percona Server|): 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   |MySQL| bug (solved for |Percona Server|): 
```

Author: while it is ok for the case when a reference is made to a single MySQL bug, it will have to be changed to something like MySQL bugs when two or more bugs are listed. Having to change this placeholder text (it's purpose is draw the readers' attention and not to provide valuable information) can become another source of spelling errors. 
Therefore, i'd suggest that this text remain unchanged (this is how MySQL defines it anyway)

> Server| from source (see `#75311 in MySQL bug system

Reviewer: and here tied to YaSSL. I'd just make a new paragraph at the bottom

.. _percona-server.management.ssl:

================================================================================

> SSL Improvements

Reviewer: Point 2 not addressed

Author: ready for review

> SSL Improvements

Reviewer: Point 5 not addressed

Author: ready for review

> SSL Improvements

Reviewer: Points 6 and Points 7 not addressed (discussion on Slack)

Author: ready for review

================================================================================

> |Persona Server| enables transmitting data in the encrypted form by using the

Reviewer: This section interleaves SSL library choice and TLS version support. I'd make two separate sections. For TLS, link to the relevant bug

TLSv1.2 protocol implemented in the |openssl| toolkit.

> |Percona Server| binaries do not link with the |yassl.name| as |MySQL| Community

Reviewer: Links with *system* OpenSSL
Missing parts from JIRA: "YaSSL security advisories are not relevant for us, system OpenSSL ones are, admin should track those and promptly upgrade as necessary. Functionality differences: link to https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/openssl-versus-yassl.html. "

Edition does. This library only supports TSLv1.0 and TSL1.1 protocols which are
less secure than TLSv1.2. By default, |Percona Server| disables TLSv1.0 and
deprecates TLSv1.1. You may still link with |yassl| when building |Percona Server| from source.

.. seealso::

   More information about |yassl.def| 
      https://www.wolfssl.com/products/yassl/

|Percona Server| supports multi-domain certificates (:abbr:`SAN (Subject
Alternative Name)`). This feature is useful to help manage the storage better,
for building high availability clusters, or as part of a backup solution.

.. seealso::

>    |Percona| Blog Post: When would you use SAN with MySQL?

Reviewer: Link to the bugs too

Author: ready for review

      https://www.percona.com/blog/2009/03/09/when-would-you-use-san-with-mysql/

> .. table:: Compatibility Metrix

Reviewer 2: s/Metrix/Matrix/

Author: Done

.. _percona-server.management.ssl:

================================================================================
SSL Improvements
================================================================================

|Percona Server| enables transmitting data in the encrypted form by using the
TLSv1.2 protocol. By default, |Percona Server| disables TLSv1.0 and deprecates
TLSv1.1.

.. rubric:: Implemented Using |openssl|

|Percona Server| uses the |openssl| toolkit version 1.1 to implement the suport
of TLSv1.2 protocol. As part of its implementation, |Percona Server| offers

> more specific diagnostic messages.

Reviewer: It's not entirely correct (we don't offer "more specific" messages, but correct ones). And I could be wrong, but we might have fixed diagnostics for YaSSL builds too

Author: Ready for review

   |MySQL| Bug System (solved for |Percona Server|): 
       `#75311 Error for SSL cipher is unhelpful <https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=75311>`_

|Percona Server| binaries do not link with the |yassl.def| as |MySQL| Community
Edition does. This library only supports TSLv1.0 and TSL1.1 protocols which are
less secure than TLSv1.2.  You may still link with |yassl| when building |Percona
Server| from source.

.. important::

   As |Percona Server| does not use |yassl|, |yassl| security advisories are not
   applicable to |Percona Server|. System administrators should track the
   security advisories relevant to |openssl| and upgrade the system promptly.

.. seealso::

   More information about |yassl.def| 
      https://www.wolfssl.com/products/yassl/
   |MySQL| Documentation: OpenSSL Versus yaSSL
      https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/openssl-versus-yassl.html

By default, |Percona Server| passes elliptic curve crypto-based ciphers to OpenSSL, such as ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256.

.. note:: 

   Although documented as supported, elliptic curve crypto-based ciphers do not work with |MySQL|.

   .. seealso::

      |MySQL| Bug System (solved for |Percona Server|):

>          `#82935 Support for SSL options not included in mysqlbinlog <https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=82935>`_

Reviewer: Wrong title
